Hi, I’m Matthew P. Del Buono (@mpdelbuono), a software architect with a decade of experience in safety critical and high-availablity systems. I have designed and implemented software for avionics, communications, and cloud infrastructural services. I am currently a Principal Software Engineer at Microsoft where I help to implement the Azure Identity platform (I focus on high-speed accurate data distribution, replication, and change notification).

I'm very focused and interested in creating maintainable and high-quality systems. This leads to a deep interest in automation and provable correctness to remove humans from "the loop". Because of this, you will find both papers and software I have written surrounding theorem provers, static analyzers, and automated code generation. I strongly believe that improving automated code generation and detection of defects is the best way to both improve software quality as well as improve the efficiency of software development, both of which have a long way to go when we compare to other, more mature engineering fields.

In support of this, while I have significant experience in C++, I'm currently learning the more technical details of Rust which fits in perfectly in a safety-conscious software environment. As a side project, I'm currently building a graph database natively in Rust in hopes that we can take advantage of its performance while I mature my understanding of Rust's more technical details and how to best design unsafe code's isolation so that performance can be maintained without sacrificing security or safety. Security and maintainability are the two biggest gaps in software development right now, and so if we are to adopt newer tools like Rust that aim to benefit one of these goals, we must provide the necessary tooling to ensure the other is not sacrificed for it.

I'm always open for a chat, especially about software design. I'm of the opinion that writing code is easy; designing maintainable software is hard. Unfortunately while there are numerous bootcamps and YouTube topics to teach people how to write code, there is a severe lack of resources for proper software design. I would be happy to help close that gap. Feel free to reach out to me at https://www.linkedin.com/in/matthewdelbuono
